Hey there, welcome to the Paws at Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Herron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12 p.m. U.S. Eastern Time.
If you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there. Olivia, I'm so happy to have you here today. Could you introduce
yourself and tell us something that you like to do for fun?
Olivia Hebner Sure. Thanks, Libby. Olivia Hebner. I'm a
data science manager here at Summit. We are a data science and analytics firm working
mostly with federal clients. We have some state clients and commercial work as well.
Something fun. I say that this is something fun half the time and something I hate half
the time, but unfortunately, I'm a runner. So I like to torture myself by running half
marathons, full marathons. It's enjoyable sometimes, but not all the time. And yeah,
as Libby said, when I'm nervous speaking, I kind of tend to turn it into my own stand-up
comedy routine. So throw me some pity laughs. It'll make me feel better.
Oh my goodness. Well, it's something that I greatly appreciate, obviously, because I
loved your PositConf talk so much. And I would love to stick the link to your talk in the chat
really quickly. So this is Olivia's talk. And it was called Same Data, Different Tools,
Visualizing with R and Python. And it was one of those things where you were like,
here is a thing. This is another thing that looks exactly the same, like visualization.
Here are some maps. It's like, this one was made in R. This one was made in Python. Can
you tell the difference? I couldn't tell the difference. I teach both R and Python. I use both.
I advocate for both. Often, we see people advocating for one over the other or fighting
about it. So seeing a talk where you're like, look, we're all doing the same thing. They're
different tools, but we can do the same stuff was so refreshing. And I enjoyed it so much.
So I'd love to hear a little bit about your background and how you came to coding and
analytics. Sure. So I was an econ major in undergrad and then went econ for master's as
well. I just had great professors who really made me interested in the subject and then joined
Summit as an analyst. So I've actually been here for almost nine years and have climbed up the
ladder in that time. I think it's interesting, right? Because when I was in undergrad, data
science was not an available major. So econ to data science kind of made sense then. I think now
maybe it's a little bit different. But from there at Summit, it was a lot of Stata coding at first,
which then turned into some R coding, which then turned into Python and circling or cycling
through different tools. So Stata was the entrance.
Stata was my first love is what I always say. I will take no Stata slander. I understand
that it's not as good as R and Python. I admit that. But you can't get over your first love.
I feel like it's a very econ major thing. It is.
Very, very, yeah. Very, very heavy on that. Also, anybody who comes from A&M, who went to A&M,
does a lot of Stata. Well, another thing that you have grown into is managing a team of data
scientists, but also software engineers. How did you decide that you were ready to make that leap
between I am an IEC, I'm an analyst, and I'm now ready to manage people? Is that something
you were excited to do and grow into? Did you have any hesitation there?
Yes, I definitely. Yeah, it's a funny question. I had hesitation. I think,
if you ask my manager, who I think is on this call, I definitely went to him at some point
and said, I don't want to be a manager. This is not the next move for me. He was like, OK,
I hear you, but let's give it some time. Let's have you attend some goal settings with me and
some year-end reviews and just get a little taste of what it's like. Over time, I really grew to
value spending that time with my staff and his staff and thinking about not just how I can grow
my career, but how I can help grow other people's careers and what that can teach me. I learned so
much from everyone around me. I don't know if it was one moment where I woke up and was like,
I'm going to be a manager this year. I'm ready, but a slow evolution of being open to the
possibility instead of just saying adamantly, no, this is not for me. I think my biggest holdup
there was I was afraid that I would lose my coding skills or not be able to code as much.
I don't code as much on some days and then other days I'm coding from nine to five. It's
about making that balance and finding what works for you.
Do you feel like being a manager has made you a more capable data scientist in any way?
I don't know if I would contribute it to being a manager or if I would contribute it to
working in the consulting field where I'm on multiple different projects at once. I'm working
with different tools at once, different data. Does that make sense? I think it's more the variety
that I have in my career rather than the title, but I think so too. So this was a thing where
your boss was like, well, I hear you that you maybe don't want to be a manager, but maybe just
sit in on all the stuff that managers would do so you could get an idea of what it actually
looked like. Right. Yeah. And he's a great boss. He's on the call. He's the best boss ever.
Genuinely he is though. So I don't want to make it sound like he was like, no,
I'm not listening. You're going to be a manager whether you want to or not. It was just a,
let's just try it out. I think it can be scary to do things that you're unfamiliar with. So
presenting the opportunity to do it in baby steps and just see what it's like really helped.
I think that that's amazing because I've been fighting being a manager forever as well. And
I've said that forever as well. And everybody always says like, well, maybe it's not what
you think it is. And maybe it looks different everywhere. We have an anonymous question in
Slido that I think is a great follow on here. It says I recently stepped into a management role
and I've been doing less hands-on coding, more project oversight because I'm not directly
building things anymore. I sometimes question whether I'm truly contributing. Do you have any
advice on reframing that thought? Yeah, I completely relate to that question and
that frame of mind, but I would say you're helping guide the people who are developing
and producing the code and producing the models or the output, whatever it is.
They need that guidance. You're helping shape their careers. And I also
have carved out a lot of my role in my coding in code reviews and different sessions
where we walk through the code together and they can see kind of how my mind works and
thinks about the code and I can see how their mind works. So I get it. I think it's a little
bit of imposter syndrome, which I pretty much have once a week at this point, but
I would just constantly remind yourself that you are helping grow their careers and that is
extremely valuable. It is extremely valuable. You're also doing glue work, which I think
somebody just mentioned in the chat. Glue work is extremely important. It just doesn't always feel
as visible when it doesn't have this tangible output, this thing that you hand over to somebody,
right? But it doesn't mean that it's not super valuable. Thank you, Anonymous Asker, for asking
that question. Well, I wanted to actually rewind just a little bit and ask more of a context
building question because I sort of skipped that and went straight to, I want to talk about your
conference talk because I loved it so much. I would love to hear a little bit more about Summit
and the work that you do. If you could give us some context on like the types of problems that
you solve, the types of data you work with, the types of clients you work with. Totally understand
if you cannot specifically specify each of those things, but sort of a general description
because we come from all different industries and backgrounds and it would be great to kind of
have examples. Sure. Yeah. I'd say it's very diverse. We are very well known for federal
loans and working with federal credit programs. So think of things like small business loans or
USDA gives out farm loans or we have international loans going out from DFC.
So lots of loan data, which is how much is the loan? What is the interest rate on the loan?
What is the risk associated with the loan? There's kind of a, I don't want to say a standard structure,
but right, you generally need X, Y, and Z when you issue a loan and that data is consistent
across data sets. So it makes moving from one federal loan program to another a little bit
easier, although they all have their unique complexities. But then we also work with,
we have work with the department of justice. And so we help on litigation analytics, supporting
testifying experts and running the analysis for them. And that data can be absolutely anything,
it's whatever DOJ is investigating at that time. So currently we are working with some
dispensing data from across the country and looking at prescriptions that were filled.
And then we also on the non-federal side, we work with a great company who is known for
education analytics. It's actually the name of the firm. And we work with them on the New York
state education data. So looking at, I believe it is middle school data, looking at grades and
trying to predict attendance and performance and are those correlated and looking at all those
different things. So it's kind of a little bit of everything, which makes it really interesting
for me. I'm not known for being able to sit on one project for years on end. I like jumping
around and seeing the variety, but yeah, open to more questions on it.
I would love to augment that really quickly. And then we'll hop back over to Slido
with a question around what tools you're using. So you mentioned R and Python, your talk was all
in R and Python. I would love to hear what you generally work in, but then also sort of like
what your team is made up of, because I remember you saying that you did manage software engineers
as well. Yep. And I will say like, I helped, there's another manager that I work directly
with. And so they do fall under him, but we do most of our like year ends and goal settings
together. So I don't want to make it sound like I'm doing that alone. But yeah, tools are,
we're a little bit scattered everywhere. Part of it is client preference. So a lot of federal
clients prefer to work in SAS. So we do have contracts that use SAS and that's their
preference. They're our clients. Great. We'll use SAS. R, Python, I would say that we're kind of
phasing out of Stata. We also use SQL pretty heavily on our projects. We're in the cloud a lot,
AWS and Azure, you know, get of course everybody's favorite, but I think that's,
that's the most, most part of it. Do you do any reporting work or have reports that you
deliver as a deliverable, like through Corto or any other publishing tools?
Yes, we do. Or Shiny, I guess too, right? As dashboards. Yes, we definitely have quite a few
are Shiny apps. Most of them again are tied to those federal loan programs. So
we're going in and users can input loan information and it'll spit out. Okay, great. Here's what your
cash flow looks like. Here's the output of that loan scenario that you just put in. So we have
three or four are Shiny apps that do that currently. And then, oh, Cordo. Yes. So we did a
big in 2024 summit, took too many people to pause at conference. And I'd say too many people because
we were like, could see us in the crowd coming. I was like, there were like 20 of us all marching
together and it looked silly, but it was very, very fun. And that year I just remember being
very big on Corto. There were a lot of Cordo talks. And so one of our staff, when we got back,
we were working on a report for the New York state education department. And she was like,
let's do it in Cordo this year. Let's, you know, let's try it out. Let's see what it is. So
we shifted from, I think that was a shift from our mark down to Cordo that year. But
yeah, we, everyone always wants to try out the new thing and, you know, we, we see how we can
make that work on projects. Amazing. Okay. Thank you for all of that context. And Rachel says,
there's never too many people at positive.com bring every bring everybody. We wore matching
t-shirts one day and it was just, it was too overwhelming. It was too much. I love it. Okay.
Well, we have so many questions for you. I'm going to hop in and get started with
Reed. Reed Merrill had asked a question and I would love if Reed could ask it live. I don't
see an asterisk in there. So I think that's okay. Let's see if we can find Reed and help them unmute.
Hello. Long time listener, first time caller.
So I work with this little academic organization that studies politicians using surveys. And so
I'm always keyed into privacy and I'm curious about how privacy works with some of the data
that you're using. So like, are there just rigid protocols that you follow? What was it like to
learn to use those and yeah. Anything else you can say about that? Yeah. I mean, that's such a
great question and I think it's like ever evolving, right. And maybe it gets a little bit more
scrutinized every year, even. I'd say obviously, as a company, if we are hosting the data ourselves,
we have to meet certain standards, lots of ATUs, which are authority to use and ATOs,
authority to operate that government agencies issue to us. And it shows that we've passed,
it's genuinely hundreds of security tests that we have to show we're monitoring and improving upon
and, you know, reach X, Y, and Z metrics every year. A lot of that is helped if you're hosting
the data in AWS or Azure, which are both already FedRAMP compliant, or I don't know what the right
term is there, but FedRAMP is a big security that puts out, you know, policies and rules
and regulations around specifically government data. And so, you know, if you're building a new
product or a solution or, I won't say a report because it wouldn't reply there, but if you're
trying to sell the government something and you get it FedRAMP approved, that goes a long way in
getting rid of security issues. But yeah, no, it's, you know, it's, you're right, it's a constant,
I don't want to say battle, but it's constantly on our minds and constantly, you know, we have to
be really careful about it. Thank you so much for your first time question. That makes me so excited
to read. Thanks for asking. Okay. The next one is anonymous. It says some people on my team are
more knowledgeable than I am in certain areas, and I worry that I shouldn't be managing them.
How do you lead effectively in this situation? And anonymous asker, I freaking love this question.
Well done. I relate so much to that question. I genuinely think everyone I manage is smarter
than I am. And I don't know if that's imposter syndrome or if that's just, or if that's just
what it is, right? I mean, you can't be the smartest in the room about every single thing
and data science and companies like so much or encompasses so much. So I think, you know, I look
at it as I'm never going to like, one of our staff is an expert in R Shiny. I mean, she can spin up
fabulous app in an hour. It would take me probably two days, right? I'd get there,
but it would take me longer. And just looking at it as, okay, how can I help best guide her? How can
I think of like, all right, you're great at doing this in R Shiny. Why don't we try this widget?
Like, why don't we try expanding your skills in X, Y, or Z? But I'm never, you know, I think if
you start comparing yourself to your team, you're going to feel understandably a little bit down
about yourself. But also like, that's amazing that you have a team that, you know, feels smarter
than you in subjects. And like, I think that really shows that you're a great leader and
you're supporting their careers, right? Like they're amazing people underneath you and you
get to work with them. And I think you, I just like genuinely don't think you should feel bad
about that. I think it just goes to show how awesome you are as a leader. Exactly. And not
that human beings are tools, but like, wouldn't you want the sharpest tool, right? Like, wouldn't
you want like the very, very best to do this stuff. And also you are smoothing the way for them
and empowering them to do stuff. So empowering smart people and capable people to do cool stuff
is amazing. I love it. Anonymous asker, fantastic question. Thank you so, so much for asking.
Okay. I would love to hop to John. John Mazaros, you have a question that I'd love you to ask live
if you're available and I'm going to highlight it in Slido.
All right. I think I'm unmuted. Yeah, you are. All right. Great. Hello. Hi, Olivia. I also was
an economist like by training and transition in the data scientist role. And I also happen to work
for the federal government for a while. Oh, hello. Yeah. Yeah. No, I actually know somebody
well, like secondhand at Summit Consulting. But my question for you is like, when you're working
with like your federal clients, for instance, how do you go about like, if you're redoing their
legacy systems or code or whatever, getting buy into rebuild that because I had a lot of issues
with this at the Postal Service, like getting buy in to do that and also like not offending
people that built these systems because sometimes that causes the whole thing to like, shut down,
probably your clients approach you to deal with the issue that they may have. But I just wondered
how you kind of navigate because for maybe some of the people on the call, the politics and some
of these agencies and things can be a little a little weird. So yeah, no, absolutely. I hear
where you're coming from. We also one of the things that Summit is known for is model validations
where we go in and review someone's model before it goes to audit. And like we are on their side.
We want to make sure they pass the audit. But people can be very particular about their model
and they don't want to admit that it could change in X, Y or Z. So I definitely get having to deal
with different personalities. I think a lot of it and this is maybe not a helpful answer is
having that like trust and relationship with your client. So I in no way can take credit for
our latest modernization effort where we moved everything from Stata and VBA to Python and an
Azure front end UI. But that is a client we've worked with for over a decade. And the leader
on that project has been there, been here at Summit for a decade. So they've had that relationship.
And instead of focusing on what's wrong with the current model, they really focused on
why this new modernized solution would be better. And it also was given to them in small
small bits. So instead of completely overhaul your model, get rid of all of Excel and Stata
and transition to this technology that you don't understand, you will not be able to code review
it yourself. It was, you know, well, we could really reduce model runtime because right now
it's taking two hours to run this model and we could make it run in five minutes and like
small, small bits and maybe even small proof points if you're able. But I do really think a
lot of it is that relationship building, which does take time and it can be really frustrating
when you're like, I know this would be better. I would also love advice from anyone in the chat
about a piece of what John asked, which was just how to get things done without offending people.
Um, I'm a super direct person and I'm also really, really unfiltered and I'm also just weird. So
sometimes I am worried that I am offending people at all times by just, by just saying things and
being like, oh man, that person's not going to understand just how weird I am and how normal
this is for me. Um, so yeah, if anybody in the chat has some advice for me on that part, I'd
love it. Thanks, John, for asking that question. It was amazing. James says keep DSH weird as a
longtime Austin resident. Get it. Okay. Um, let's hop back over to, um, Slido here. I saw
Arsenis had a question and I'd love it if Arsenis could ask that one live. I know he'll be up for
that. Hey, Olivia. Thanks. How's it going, Olivia? Thanks for chatting with us today.
Um, so much like John just mentioned a moment ago, I also, um, am, I'm a former economist for the
federal government and I also consulted for the federal government, et cetera. So I know, I'm
curious about what, how your career transition, um, happened, what kind of made you made the jump
to focus a little bit more on data work, that kind of stuff. Um, yeah. Sure. Yeah. I think
what's interesting about Summit is we've always been a federal consulting firm, but grounded in
data. So our founding partner is actually an econ PhD. So right. His, his very first project was
statistical sampling and very econ heavy. So that's always kind of been our focus. So when I
joined, um, I started working on the model validation team that I talked about it a minute
ago, and that was mostly in SAS. Um, but I'd say as it, my career progressed, you get a little bit
more familiar with the different, different types of projects summit has, and you're able to, you
know, kind of pick and choose a little bit more. And, you know, if the client doesn't have a
preference and you really want to learn Python, you can say, please, please, please, boss, will
you let me use Python on this project? And there's kind of like opportunities there. Um, but I think
I, I, I would say like, I'm really lucky to work here just for the fact that we were founded by
the econ, um, PhD. And so that we are rooted in data and it's never been an issue of, you know,
work on this project that has no data. You'll never use coding or open Excel, you know, all of
our projects, whether they're in Excel or Stata or Python have some sort of data element that where
you can like grow your skills and, you know, test them as well. Cool. Thanks. Fantastic. Thank you
very much, Arsenis. Let's see. I have, oh, I have a very, very, um, situational question here.
It's an anonymous question. It says, I recently asked an employee to present their work,
but the room was very critical and offered mostly unconstructive feedback. On reflection,
I could have chaired the meeting better. What strategies do you use to keep feedback sessions
positive and helpful? Oh, that's a good question. Yeah. I mean, I'm sitting here thinking,
I literally just asked the question, how do I not offend people? Right. Cause I'm weird and direct.
I think, oh, it's so hard, right? Because everyone's personality is different and it can
be hard. Maybe it's just a good, good place to just acknowledge that this is a hard thing,
right? Like, let's just validate that it's difficult. Yeah, no, absolutely. That's a great
starting point. This is difficult. I mean, right. I would almost suggest sending a quick email or
having a five minute chat with the, you know, feedback givers, um, beforehand to kind of set
the, this is what we're here for. This is what we're hoping to get out of it and maybe give them
like a more direct mindset instead of, you know, whatever they come up with in the moment, which
can, I'm sure it come off as critical if they haven't had time to like, think about the impact
it will have. Um, I also just try, I hope my boss is still on the call for this. This is,
this is funny that he's here. I, he, you know, is always saying, and I try to repeat it in my
head as well to always assume positive intent. So even if the feedback sounds really critical
and you know, that maybe even the tone is critical, try to assume it's coming from a
good place and you know, that it is actually for some good purpose. I think also, you know,
goes a long way having that mindset shift, but yeah, no, I mean, it's really, really hard. I've
been in that situation. I wonder if maybe I could compare it to running a hangout a little bit or
running a live event because I do it twice a week now. And I will say that if you are chairing a
meeting, you can set the tone by just describing what will be happening, right? Like so-and-so is
going to be presenting this. We're here for this purpose where this is a feedback session. I know
all of you are going to lead with curiosity. And I know that all of you are going to do such a great
job of encouraging and asking questions for clarification instead of, you know, having
accusatory tones or whatever. You're like, you're steering a ship. So if you start by like laying a
good foundation about what we're doing here, I think that it can be really helpful. It's just
like the sort of spiel at the beginning of a hangout. This is why we're here. We're an accepting
and a loving place to be, right? Okay. Thank you so much for that fantastic question, anonymous
asker, whoever you are. Adam, I saw that you had a question. Would you like to ask that live?
Adam T., who I think is Adam Taggart. There he is. Hey, Adam.
Sorry. I'm trying to unmute quick enough. There you go.
Thank you. Hi, Olivia. Thanks for sharing your experiences with us today. Somebody actually
anonymously replied to my question in Slido. And so they've helped me rephrase it. I'd like to
phrase it better than I have it there. Oh, great.
When you're hiring or when you're talking to people, data people like us, who are thinking
of moving from academia to industry, or maybe they are like they've already made the jump and now
they find themselves in the deep end a little bit. What skills or kind of attributes, personality
traits, do you get the vibe from them that says this person can actually sort of turn from
a research analysis focused mindset to a production deployment style way of thinking?
Or are there any red flags which make you go, oh, this person is still very much research,
science, and probably isn't ready for industry? Sure. I will start by saying I don't have a ton
of experience talking to people who want to make that shift. But I think going to grad school,
and I have lots of friends who are in academia, I will give my best shot at an answer. I think
it kind of applies to anyone I interview, though. I'm personally always looking for curiosity,
right? So, okay, maybe you solved the problem. But where else could we go? Or what's the next step?
Or how can we make it better, right? So, instead of just being like, I made a regression model,
and here is the output. Thumbs up. Amazing. Like, okay, could we make it better? Should we try a
different specification? How would you present it to the client? How would you explain it to
a non-technical audience, right? Maybe always going just like one step further there. But
I don't know. I don't want to, I mean, I don't have any experience shifting from academia to
industry myself. And I'm sure there are lots of differences. But I really just think being
curious and being, you know, open to having conversations and exploring goes a long way.
Fantastic. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. Thanks for asking that question. If anybody has
experience with that in the chat, one of the reasons that we all hang out together is because
we all have different experiences and can come together and help each other. So, if anybody has
anything to add, I saw Rush just added something as well to Adam's question. Throw your experience
in the chat for us so that we can talk a little bit more about it. All right. Thanks, Adam.
We have an anonymous question that says, do you have any tips or frameworks for getting to know
your team members? For example, how they prefer to be engaged, how they like to receive feedback,
how they see their own strengths and weaknesses? That's a great question. I'm going to answer this
maybe in a roundabout way. But when I first started as a manager, so I'm in my third year now,
with my team, we started these things that we call nine boxes. Olivia, am I allowed to put
one in the chat so everyone can see what it is? I mean, you have my permission to put anything.
Okay. I didn't know if I had the power to put it in the chat. You absolutely do.
And so, it's a very silly icebreaker is what it is, right? But it starts that conversation
and gives you things to ask about and follow up with them in your one-on-ones, which then I really
do think opens the door for, okay, how you are liking when I ask you these questions and you
like when I give you open feedback or you seem a little bit more reserved and let me frame this
in a different way for you. So, people just answer that question. They say, oh, I'm a one
today and here's a little short why. But I think that doing these silly icebreakers, and they are
so silly, I recognize that. It goes a long way. The team gets attached to them and you get a
little bit more insight into how their brain works and even just how they're feeling that week in
that moment. So, it definitely helps a lot. I also, my first closet conference did make Hadley
answer one and that is my claim to fame at my company.
I would love it if you could give us a little rundown on why you wanted to give a conference
talk and why you chose your topic, like what spoke to you there? For anybody who hasn't
watched it, maybe you could give like a 30 second rundown on what it was, be more eloquent
than I was.
Olivia Hebner Sure. Um, yeah, we did a small data challenge
at Summit through, oh my gosh, I should have brushed up on this before, but Data Viz Society,
I believe, every February they do a Black History Month Data Viz Challenge centered
around W. E. V. Du Bois and his artwork. So it was recreating something that was drawn
in, I believe it was pencil, in R or Python, and you want to get it as close to the original
as possible, right? You don't, you want to try and make it feel like it was hand drawn
instead of like, this is a graph that I clearly created in ggplot and used, you know, three
lines to make it. So we did a little challenge, part of it was to have Python users learn
R and vice versa. And then we were like, the idea was, oh, we'll have everyone vote at
the end and see which output is better. And then at the end of the challenge, we got to
our two outputs and they look identical. So the vote was basically 50-50. No one could
decide, oh, that's Python, that's R. We all just agreed that they looked the same. So
it was a really interesting find. I actually really expected there to be some sort of difference
between the two. And then giving a pause at talk, I hate public speaking, just like absolutely
hate it. And it's something that I've been working on my whole career. I've terrified
before. A fun fact is that I started college as a theater major. So that clearly didn't
work with stage fright and being afraid of public speaking. But I went to Posit in 2024,
thought it was amazing, was so envious of all the speakers, and said, you know what,
you can do this, like submit a talk, you can do it, push yourself to do it. And the data
challenge was kind of just like a natural, this could be a really cool talk to give.
Well, I absolutely don't think that anybody who watches your talk will ever think that
you don't like public speaking, but I'll join you on that. I also don't like public speaking
and was shaking in my boots, my entire lightning talk that I gave at conf in 2023. So you know
what, you guys fake it till you make it, sometimes actually works.
Yep, absolutely.
Okay, everybody definitely go check out her conf talk. But also definitely go think about
signing up for Posit conf. And like, if you need some help convincing your boss, we actually have
an article that's I think from a couple of years ago, which is like how to help convince your boss
to let you attend Posit conf, which is really, really helpful. I think that it's still valuable
a few years on. And then I want to
remember making that when I was like on a long car ride, and I was just doing it on my computer.
And the fact that that doc is like still living on is amazing.
I still send that to people all the time. Because that's a question that I get a lot is like,
I really want to attend Posit conf. I see it as a professional development opportunity, and I want
to help get my company to pay for it. And I'm like, wait, wait, wait, but it's also like really
good for your company that you go learn this stuff and that you meet people and that if your
company is recruiting that you meet all of these very capable people that you could recruit and
like it's such a valuable thing all around 360 value. So I really love that we have something
that we can we can give people. I also have one more resource that I want to share. If we step
back one question about getting to know people, because something that I have been meaning to do
with Rachel, actually, Rachel's my boss, you guys, is a user guide to working with me. And
Julie Zhuo, I don't know how to say her last name has an article on medium that is a user guide to
working with you. It's great. It contains a template if you scroll down user guide to working
with me. And it has things like how I view success, how I communicate, things I do that
may annoy you, which is really interesting, because I think I'm a really annoying person.
What gains and loses my trust, my strengths, my growth areas, those are opportunities for growth.
And then there are some optional sections like what I expect from people I manage, how I give
and receive feedback. I don't think the how I give and receive feedback one should be optional. I
think it should be front and center. And then also she includes like a sample. I think that
this is so valuable. And I'm going to promise Rachel that I'm going to fill one out.
Okay. We have a follow up from Natasha. Has an asterisk on it. So I'm going to ask it for
Natasha. Is there anything you do to prepare before giving a talk since they make you nervous?
Oh, yes. Practice a million times. Like practice more than you think you need to practice.
I was pacing my hotel room for two days straight just saying the slides over and over. And
I know that sounds boring. Like that is honestly really boring advice. And it's honestly also
kind of painful in the moment because you're nervous and you'd rather be doing anything else
than focusing on this thing that's making you nervous. But you know, the more you do it,
the more it's in your brain, just the less likely that you're going to anything is going to happen
that you're not expecting it to happen. And I'd even say to like I practiced in front of my
coworkers. Right. I took their feedback. I practiced with everyone staring at me silently.
I did it virtually, you know, different environments and just again, practice, practice,
practice. Yeah. Practice, practice, practice. I before my comp talk, I spent a week
cat sitting and dog sitting for my friend who was going out of town.
And so every single day, twice a day when I went over, I gave my comp talk to her animals
in her house. I love that. So I had this like a captive audience that couldn't tell me anything
bad. And they were very cute and fuzzy. And that worked so, so well, because I tell you what,
I gave the talk to my husband and I hated that experience. Zero out of 10. Don't recommend.
He told me all kinds of things I didn't want to hear. But what was really helpful is if you sign
up to give a talk at posit conference, you're going to be put into a pool of people who are
prepping with coaches who are professional speaking coaches. So you're going to be
practicing over and over again already in front of this group of people who are all invested in
you succeeding and getting really good feedback from a professional. So I'll put that out there
as like coaches are great. Yes. The coaches are great. It was like a huge benefit of doing a
posit comp talk. Okay. Thank you, Natasha, for asking that question. It was a great one.
Ooh, we have 14 minutes left. Can we fit in our last four questions? Let's try.
We have an anonymous question that says I manage a team where some people focus on doing their job
reliably while others are really high achievers. I respect both mindsets, but how do you keep both
groups motivated and engaged? And I really like this question because I remember talking with
Olivia earlier, not earlier. You guys weren't there. It added on another time about keeping
teams motivated. I'd love to chat more about this, Olivia. Yeah, absolutely. I think again,
like it's hard, right? Because every human being is different. We're motivated by different things.
I have found a common ground between, I'm going to just say all tech people, data scientists,
software engineers, you name it, is challenging them in some sort of way, or maybe not even
challenging, but giving them an opportunity to learn something new, to do something a little
bit different. That has worked out really well for my team and other teams here as well. So, right,
we did that data viz challenge that I presented on. We just actually did another data viz challenge
across the entire firm where we encouraged data scientists to team up with staff who had
expertise in federal credit loan programs so they could create a very specific federal credit
visualization. That was a very summit challenge. It doesn't sound quite as exciting, but I think
pushing them to say, okay, do it in Python. You're great at R. Try it in Python. Giving them
little opportunities that break up the monotony of their day-to-day, even if they are super
motivated and super high achieving, like giving people an outlet to just be different than their
9-to-5, but still in the 9-to-5 environment, I found has worked really well to reset their mind
and reset their motivation and just get them excited about something. Fantastic. All right.
Also, I'd like to hear in the chat what motivates you, because I have a feeling that I'm motivated
by very different things from other people, and because I am just so brilliantly ADHD,
a lot of my motivations are very uniquely ADHD things, like novelty. If you gave me something
where you were like, here's this challenge to do something in a new thing, and it has a really
short deadline, I would be so much more motivated to do that than here is all this time, take all
the time you need, do whatever you want. That would be horrible for me, but I know people who
are like, I really love room to run with zero boundaries. Cool. Awesome. Not for me, though.
It's great to know what motivates people. Nellie says, deadlines, same. I love that Isabella said
jinx, because Isabella is so good at helping me stay on a deadline. When I have a deadline for
Isabella, I appreciate her so much checking in and being like, are you done with this? I'm like,
no, but thanks for asking, because now I know I need to be. All right. Thank you so much,
anonymous asker. Let's go to Joey. Joey Knapp had a question. Would you like to ask that one live,
Joey or Joseph? There he is. Hey. Yeah, sure. Hi, Libby. Hi, Olivia. I was wondering if you
could talk more about the different kinds of projects that you work on. If you're doing a
lot of one-off reports, if you're kind of having ongoing relationships where you're like the data
team for this one organization, and how often you are like building technical capacity on the team
that you're working with. And also, bonus, if you say what your favorite is. Yeah. So, I think
that's such an annoying answer. I hate that I'm about to say this. It depends on the project.
Right? Some projects are very much, we have our monthly report. We have our quarterly report. It
is always in this format. Blah, blah, blah. Other projects are much more ad hoc, and you have more
room to play around with it and, you know, see where you can grow with it. I'm trying to think
of like a fun example, but like art, like federal loans. This is, I mean, some people really like
federal loans. So, maybe this is very fun for everyone. Right? They are on a very, in September,
it's called re-estimate season. And they have to run a ton of reports and statistics and metrics
from truly September 1st until the end of the month. They're due October 1st. If you're late,
that is like, yeah, I don't think you can be late. I don't know what happens. It wouldn't be good. So,
like they have their timeframes and they know about those things. Outside of that, I would say
that there's a lot of opportunity to be like, okay, well, we're making this monthly report,
but what if we added in this other really cool metric that I found, you know, as I was researching
the data a little bit, or even like accidentally stumbled upon, which has happened to me.
So, I really think all of our projects are a little bit about like making it your own. And I
see in the chat that some people don't like that open-endedness. Sorry, everyone. But if you,
you know, I really think that on every project, there's a way to grow in the skill that you want
to grow in. And it's about just like having the curiosity and creativity to find a way to get
there. So, try and like step back from the monthly, quarterly, you know, typical-ness and think about
like, where do you want to go? What do you want to do? What do you want to learn? Who do you want
to be? And like find a way to get there, work with your boss or your co-colleagues to get there.
I love it. Thank you for asking that question, Joey. We have eight minutes left. We have a
couple of questions left in Slido. I want to ask this one because it leads very nicely into a
career advice question, which I would love to ask you next. So, we have an anonymous one that says,
in my team, some members reflect quietly while others jump straight into discussions. Any tips
for making sure everyone's voice is heard? And I'm going to shout out the book, Quiet,
in case you have not read it. Go read the book, Quiet, if you want help identifying with people
who are reflective, quiet people. What do you think, Olivia? Any experiences?
Yeah. I mean, believe it or not, I actually started my career as a quiet person and no one
at my company believes me, except the ones who were, you know, here during that time. But all
of our new staff are like, you, you are the loudest person at this company. There's no way
that you ever started quiet. So, I can, like, approach it from being that person as well.
And I think it's about building comfortability and building trust within the room and within the team.
I don't want to, like, I do call on people, but I call on people that I know, you know,
gently, and I lead it with a question that I know that they can answer, that I know they have
an opinion on. And again, I really think it's grounded in that trust and, you know, feeling
comfortable to have them say, I don't know, like, I'd love to look into it, but I just don't know.
And like, always having them realize that's an acceptable answer as well. But I do think that
it's really important to give, you know, shy people the chance to speak and trying to make
them feel comfortable the best you can. And sometimes that's just, like, being vulnerable
yourself, right? And saying, you know, I don't know what my opinion is on this. I'd love to hear
everyone else's thoughts or how can you guide me, right? Instead of, you know, having everyone in
the room assume that, like, you're looking for a certain answer, like, to go a certain way.
Yeah, or that you're looking for perfection. I think that that is, you just gave, like,
the best possible advice that you could have given, which was just cultivate psychological
safety and model that, you know, penetrable thing where you're like, I'm not perfect,
we're not perfect, we're not here for that. Morgana in the chat said, quiet to loud,
like that quiet to loud transition is a sign that you feel safe there. And yes, exactly. Like,
if you know a quiet person who is quiet in front of other people, and then when you're
one on one with them, they can't stop talking. It's about safety. So and I have friends like
that. I'm one of those people sometimes too. Wonderful, wonderful. There's also an article
that I wrote a blog post that I wrote that is about curiosity, hiring for curiosity,
developing this like team structure that's safe for curiosity is also like a really,
really great thing. Because often, some people who are quiet and listening are questioning as
well. They're like, I have questions that are unanswered that I am not going to take action
or say anything on unless I know more. And maybe they're just not feeling safe enough to ask those
to kind of get things moving. Thank you so much, anonymous asker. That was great. And I would love
it if we could just do a little career advice question. I hopefully I'm not putting you too
much on the spot. But is there a piece of career advice that has really helped you or that you like
to give other people or maybe something you wish you had been told or learned much earlier in your
career? Yeah, I think I hinted at it a little bit already. And I will be honest, I heard it on my
very first data science hangout ever. And I've tried to think of something better. But I just
think it's the best and it's do it scared. Right? Like if you see someone and you're like, wow,
I wish I was giving that talk, like submit a talk, even though it's terrifying. It is terrifying. I
agree. But just, you know, do it anyway. Try it anyway. You're you know, you could be up on stage
giving the talk. You're just as skilled as the people everyone else is. You're just as skilled.
You're just as capable. And the only thing holding you back is nerve. So just do it. And then if you
hate it, you never have to do it again. You never have to do it again. That's true. And also,
like in the beginning, when when somebody asked the question about like, hey, I think that everybody
on my team is smarter than I am. How do I manage them? There are so many people in the chat. If
you're watching this later, you can't see this. But there are so many people in the chat who were
just saying like, yes, that's how everybody feels. That's how we all feel. However, you're feeling
you're not alone in feeling that way. And also, you'll probably surprise yourself.
One thing that I we have an internal sort of little mini posit internal conference where we
get together for work week and that's coming up in March. And I will be giving a lightning talk
there about about my experience with meeting people to have on the hangout where everybody
that I talk to has this hesitation where they're like, I don't know why you want me to talk at the
hangout. Like, why me? I don't have anything important to say. I don't have anything interesting
to say. And sometimes the people who are most adamant about that, about the fact that they have
absolutely nothing to share that anybody would care about, turn out to have so many questions
asked in Slido that we can't answer them all, right? Like, they are so interesting to other
people. And they had no idea. And they've just been staying quiet and assuming that they are
not good enough, not fun, not interesting, don't know anything. You really truly don't
know until you go talk to people. But I guarantee you, you're more interesting than you think you are.
Okay. So, we had one more question I saw in Slido from Anil. And I'm going to read it really quickly
since we only have two minutes. It's a technical one. Feel free to pivot with this one. It was,
have you tried PySpark.SQL? Seems good at parallel computing for large scale queries,
et cetera. And do you validate ML pipeline for government or just for end results? Or for
government? I personally have not tried PySpark. I do think we have someone at Summit working on
one project that uses that. But I don't have experience there. And then, yes, we do have a
small team who we're validating ML models at a government agency.
Amazing. Sheldon says, thank you for the chat. Sheldon, thank you for hanging out with us.
Thank you, everybody, for hanging out with us. I know that it is a holiday week. It's spring
break for a lot of people. I appreciate you spending your Thursday with us. I cannot wait
to see you next week. And I also can't wait to see you on Tuesday if you come to the Data Science
Lab. Because Davis Vaughn is going to be joining us. And he is going to be walking through Isabel
and I the new dplyr functions. So, we have new functions for filtering, specifically filtering
out. New functions for recoding values inside of variables to kind of patch a hole that had
been in dplyr for a while with recoding. They're so fun. But this is also a chance to talk to
somebody who has all the behind the scenes details of how functions get added to a package like
dplyr in the tidyverse. You know, what decisions are made in the background, what conversations
happen, what does it mean to have something be superseded and deprecated as far as a function
like case matches being. So, come with all of your questions for Davis. Hang out with Isabel and I.
And we will see you on Tuesday. Thank you.
You can join Isabella on Wednesday for her mixed modeling demo.
Yes, you absolutely can.
You can hang out with us every day if you all want to.
If you're looking for one more thing to do during a potential spring break, March 3rd, we have
Satish from Johnson & Johnson who's going to be giving a talk. We're not having a Data Science
Lab that day because it's spring break, so you can join that one instead. All right, everybody,
I will see you in a few days, potentially. Have a good weekend. Bye, everybody.
Thanks, everyone.